content/hardware.md, before:

---
title: "Hardware"
date: 2022-09-03T17:59:29-05:00
draft: false
---

## Desktop

### CPU

My CPU is an AMD Ryzen 4600g.
When it comes to CPU and GPU power, I really don't need much, so a 6 core
12 thread CPU is definitely enough for me. The most I do with it is compiling
large programs and video editing.
You can even overclock the CPU if you want a little extra performance.

### GPU

I don't use a discrete GPU, I just use the built in graphics that come with my AMD 4600g.
This GPU/APU uses Radeon at 1.9 GHz which is pretty OK, but you can always overclock it if you want extra graphical performance.
I don't overclock my graphics because I don't really play any video games, especially on my computer.

### Motherboard

My motherboard is an ASRock B450M Steel Legend.
I bought this motherboard because it was on sale and it had some pretty useful features.
Although I'm not a big fan of RGB lights in general, I really don't mind the lights on the motherboard.
It also has useful ports like USB-C, optical audio, and even Display Port for those who need it.

### RAM

I use OLOy DDR4 2x8GB RAM sticks.
I clock my ram at around 2.933 GHz because it's the fastest supported speed for my CPU/APU.
For me personally, any amount of RAM over 16GB is overkill, at least for what
I normally do day to day.

### PSU

I literally just used an old PSU I had sitting around my house, I think I've had it for around 10 years.
It can handle up 300 watts, which is more than enough for my setup.
I might replace my PSU soon because I really don't want my computer failing or catching on fire anytime soon.

### Drives

I have 2 drives in my desktop, one HDD and one SSD.
The SSD I use is a Western Digital Black 256GB SN730.
It is an NVMe drive so it's pretty dang fast, I don't think I have ever had to physically wait when it came to moving files on this drive.
I use this drive to store my bootloader/OS as well as small a frequently used files like documents, programs, and etc.
My HDD is Seagate BarraCuda 2TB 7200 RPM.
I mostly use this drive to store large files like movies, games, pictures, and etc.
It's a little slow, but I'm very patient.

### Case

My case is a "be quiet!" ATX case. I got it because it was on a very nice sale.
I am unsure what model my case is, but the title *is* true, it's very quiet.

## Laptops

### Lenovo Ideapad
My laptop is a Lenovo Ideapad 5 15IIL05 (rolls right off the tongue).
It's surprisingly lightweight and durable, at least in my opinion.
This laptop actually has a few cool features that I use like USB-C and a built-in camera privacy shutter.
There are some downsides though, there's no Ethernet port, not many BIOS/UEFI settings, and some hardware/software qwerks.
Compatibility with Linux for this laptop has been a mixed bag.
On one hand, it runs Debian Based distributions perfectly fine, but on the other hand, running OpenSuse, Manjaro, or even Fedora results in lots of weird results.
Believe it or not, Arch, Void, and Alpine all work perfectly fine on this laptop.
Battery life on this laptop is actually amazing!
I have used this laptop for hours at a time and haven't come close to draining the battery.
Overall, I would give this laptop an 7.5/10, good, but could use some improvements.

### Lenovo Thinkpad
My other laptop is a Lenovo Thinkpad X220.
I prefer to use this laptop over the Ideapad.
First things first, Thinkpads are built like tanks.
I could drop this laptop from a rooftop and it will probably still work afterwords.
Although this laptop isn't that fast, since it's almost 10 years old, I don't really need a fast computer for my work.
All of my computing can easily be done on a 10 year old computer.
I also replaced the stock BIOS on this laptop with [Coreboot](https://coreboot.org/).

## Keyboards, Mice, Etc.

### Keyboard

I use a [Unicomp](https://www.pckeyboard.com/) Classic.
When it comes to keyboards, you can't beat the IBM Model M, and the Unicomp Classic is as close to a Model M as you can get.
This keyboard is the best keyboard I have ever used, period.
Although this keyboard isn't a Model M it is as close as you can get to an IBM Model M.
Believe it or not, Unicomp actually bought the tooling and molds that were used
to make the Model M directly from IBM.
Pretty rad.

### Mouse

My mouse is Logitech three button mouse. Why?
Because it's the best mouse that I currently have and I barely use my mouse as
it is, so I don't really mind.
I don't prefer wireless mice because I think that replacing the batteries on them is annoying.

### Monitor

My main monitor is an HP 24mh.
When it comes to desktop monitors, all I really need is something that can do 1080p.
Although color accuracy is somewhat important to me, I really don't care if a monitor's color accuracy is good or not.

## Other Things

### Phone

I've never been a big fan of cell phones.
Despite that, I still use a cell phone because in this day and age people
just *require* you to have a cell phone.
I *do not* and *will not* download random apps on my phone.
I only have a handful of stock applications on my phone, and that is
all I will *ever* need.
I personally have a Google Pixel 3a that I flashed [Graphene OS](https://grapheneos.org/) onto.

Commit message:

Change info about hardware I use

content/hardware.md, after:

---
title: "Hardware"
date: 2022-09-03T17:59:29-05:00
draft: false
---

## Desktop

### CPU

My CPU is an AMD Ryzen 4600g.
When it comes to CPU and GPU power, I really don't need much, so a 6 core
12 thread CPU is definitely enough for me. The most I do with it is compiling
large programs and video editing.
You can even overclock the CPU if you want a little extra performance.

### GPU

I don't use a discrete GPU, I just use the built in graphics that come with my AMD 4600g.
This GPU/APU uses Radeon at 1.9 GHz which is pretty OK, but you can always overclock it if you want extra graphical performance.
I don't overclock my graphics because I don't really play any video games, especially on my computer.

### Motherboard

My motherboard is an ASRock B450M Steel Legend.
I bought this motherboard because it was on sale and it had some pretty useful features.
Although I'm not a big fan of RGB lights in general, I really don't mind the lights on the motherboard.
It also has useful ports like USB-C, optical audio, and even Display Port for those who need it.

### RAM

I use OLOy DDR4 2x8GB RAM sticks.
I clock my ram at around 2.933 GHz because it's the fastest supported speed for my CPU/APU.
For me personally, any amount of RAM over 16GB is overkill, at least for what
I normally do day to day.

### PSU

My PSU is EVGA 600W Bronze power supply, which is somewhat overkill
considering that my CPU and GPU combined only draw around 65 watts max.
I really don't care what PSU I use as long as it's safe (doesn't catch on
fire) and delivers the right amount of power.

### Drives

I have 2 drives in my desktop, one HDD and one SSD.
The SSD I use is a Western Digital Black 256GB SN730.
It is an NVMe drive so it's pretty dang fast, I don't think I have ever had to physically wait when it came to moving files on this drive.
I use this drive to store my bootloader/OS as well as small a frequently used files like documents, programs, and etc.
My HDD is Seagate BarraCuda 2TB 7200 RPM.
I mostly use this drive to store large files like movies, games, pictures, and etc.
It's a little slow, but I'm very patient.

### Case

My case is a "be quiet!" ATX case. I got it because it was on a very nice sale.
I am unsure what model my case is, but the title *is* true, it's very quiet.

## Laptops

### Lenovo Thinkpad
My main laptop is a Lenovo Thinkpad X220.
First things first, Thinkpads are built like tanks.
I could drop this laptop from a rooftop and it will probably still work afterwords.
Although this laptop isn't that fast, since it's almost 10 years old, I don't really need a fast computer for my work.
All of my computing can easily be done on a 10 year old computer.
I also replaced the stock BIOS on this laptop with [Coreboot](https://coreboot.org/).

### Other Laptops

I have various other junk laptops laying around that family or friends have
given me. I use these every once in a while for various small tasks, but I
don't take them with me if I go anywhere.

## Keyboards, Mice, Etc.

### Keyboard

I use a [Unicomp](https://www.pckeyboard.com/) Classic.
When it comes to keyboards, you can't beat the IBM Model M, and the Unicomp Classic is as close to a Model M as you can get.
This keyboard is the best keyboard I have ever used, period.
Although this keyboard isn't a Model M it is as close as you can get to an IBM Model M.
Believe it or not, Unicomp actually bought the tooling and molds that were used
to make the Model M directly from IBM.
Pretty rad.

### Mouse

My mouse is Logitech three button mouse. Why?
Because it's the best mouse that I currently have and I barely use my mouse as
it is, so I don't really mind.
I don't prefer wireless mice because I think that replacing the batteries on them is annoying.

### Monitor

My main monitor is an HP 24mh.
When it comes to desktop monitors, all I really need is something that can do 1080p.
Although color accuracy is somewhat important to me, I really don't care if a monitor's color accuracy is good or not.

## Other Things

### Phone

I've never been a big fan of cell phones.
Despite that, I still use a cell phone because in this day and age people
just *require* you to have a cell phone.
I *do not* and *will not* download random apps on my phone.
I only have a handful of stock applications on my phone, and that is
all I will *ever* need.
I personally have a Google Pixel 3a that I flashed [Graphene OS](https://grapheneos.org/) onto.
