content/websites.md, before:

---
title: "Websites"
date: 2022-09-03T17:57:58-05:00
draft: false
---

Websites I find neat or interesting.

- [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/): Best Linux wiki on the web
- [The Useless Web](https://theuselessweb.com/): Random websites
- [Suckless](https://suckless.org/): Cool software
- [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/): A decentralized file system/storage system
- [Matrix](https://matrix.org/): A great chat system with lots of features
- [Jami](https://jami.net/): A better, free version of Zoom
- [GNU](https://www.gnu.org/): Free software
- [FSF Directory](https://directory.fsf.org/): Free software directory
- [Wiby.me](https://wiby.me/): A search engine for small websites
- [Fediverse](https://fediverse.party/): Collection of federated social media
- [OpenBSD](https://openbsd.org/): A very secure and useful BSD distribution
- [DragonFlyBSD](https://www.dragonflybsd.org/): A BSD distribution focused on performance
- [troff papers](https://troff.org/papers.html): Papers, manuals, and references for troff/groff
- [QBE](https://c9x.me/compile/): LLVM in 10% of the code
- [cproc](https://git.sr.ht/~mcf/cproc): A very small C compiler based on QBE
- [XMPP](https://xmpp.org/): A better chat protocol than Matrix
- [Zig](https://ziglang.org/): A programming language that aims to be just as simple and fast as C

Commit message:

More links added to 'cool websites'

content/websites.md, after:

---
title: "Websites"
date: 2022-09-03T17:57:58-05:00
draft: false
---

Websites I find neat or interesting. These links are in no specific order.

- [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/): Best Linux wiki on the web
- [The Useless Web](https://theuselessweb.com/): Random websites
- [Suckless](https://suckless.org/): Cool software
- [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/): A decentralized file system/storage system
- [Matrix](https://matrix.org/): A great chat system with lots of features
- [Jami](https://jami.net/): A better, free version of Zoom
- [GNU](https://www.gnu.org/): Free software
- [FSF Directory](https://directory.fsf.org/): Free software directory
- [Wiby.me](https://wiby.me/): A search engine for small websites
- [Fediverse](https://fediverse.party/): Collection of federated social media
- [OpenBSD](https://openbsd.org/): A very secure and useful BSD distribution
- [DragonFlyBSD](https://www.dragonflybsd.org/): A BSD distribution focused on performance
- [troff papers](https://troff.org/papers.html): Papers, manuals, and references for troff/groff
- [Teach Yourself CS](https://teachyourselfcs.com/): Read the title
- [Long Form Math](https://longformmath.com/): Some *really* good math books
- [QBE](https://c9x.me/compile/): LLVM in 10% of the code
- [cproc](https://git.sr.ht/~mcf/cproc): A very small C compiler based on QBE
- [tcc](https://www.bellard.org/tcc/): A tiny C compiler (and probably my favorite C compiler)
- [XMPP](https://xmpp.org/): A better chat protocol than Matrix
- [Zig](https://ziglang.org/): A programming language that aims to be just as simple and fast as C
